<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="LyX 2.1.4" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8" />
<title>MACHINE LEARNING FOR COMPUTER ENGENEERING</title>
<style type='text/css'>
/* Layout-provided Styles */
h1.title {
font-size: x-large;
margin-bottom: 1ex;
text-align: center;
}
div.author {
font-size: large;
margin-top: 1.3ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
text-align: center;
}
h1.chapter {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: xx-large;
margin-top: 4ex;
margin-bottom: 0.8ex;
text-align: left;
}
div.standard {
margin-bottom: 2ex;
}
ul.itemize {
margin-top: 0.7ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
margin-left: 3ex;
text-align: left;
}
div.bibliography {
margin-left: 2em;
text-indent: -2em;
}
span.bibitemlabel:before { content: "["; }
span.bibitemlabel:after { content: "] "; }
 div.toc {
   margin: 2em 0em;
   border-style: solid;
   border-width: 2px 0px;
   padding: 1em 0em;
 }
 h2.tochead { font-size: x-large; font-weight: bold; }
 div.lyxtoc-0 {
   margin: 2em 0em 0em 0em;
   font-size: xx-large;
   font-weight: bold;
 }
 div.lyxtoc-1 {
   margin: 1em 0em 0em 0em;
   font-size: x-large;
   font-weight: bold;
 }
 div.lyxtoc-2 {
   margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 1em;
   font-size: large;
   font-weight: normal;
 }
 div.lyxtoc-3 { margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 0.5em; font-size: medium; }
 div.lyxtoc-4 { margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 0.5em; }
 div.lyxtoc-5 { margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 0.5em; }
 div.lyxtoc-6 { margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 0.5em; }
 a.tocentry {
   text-decoration: none;
   color: black;
 }
 a.tocentry:visited { color: black; }
</style>
</head>
<body>
<h1 class="title"><a id='magicparlabel-1' />MACHINE LEARNING FOR COMPUTER ENGENEERING</h1>
<div class="author"><a id='magicparlabel-2' />Laurentino Duodécimo Rosado Fernandes</div>
<h1 class="chapter"><a id='magicparlabel-3' /><div class="chapter_label">Chapter 1</div> Introduction</h1>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-4' />Machine learning, also called automatic learning, according to Arthur Samuel in 1959, &ldquo;gives computers the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed[<a href='#LyXCite-key_1'><span class="bib-label">1</span></a>]&rdquo;.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-5' />Andrew NG seems to rather saying: without being <em>apparently</em> explicitly programmed[<a href='#LyXCite-key_2'><span class="bib-label">2</span></a>, <a href='#LyXCite-key_3'><span class="bib-label">3</span></a>].</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-6' />Take a little child, for example. One points objects to them, and says things like: - &ldquo;Look, a dog!&rdquo;, and then, - &ldquo;There, a car!&rdquo;, and so on. A little while further, the child begins to mention the objects when they see them. The child learned the name of the objects and is able to classify the objects to a certain extent.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-7' />Some aspects of the learning process must be observed:</div>

<ul class="itemize"><a id='magicparlabel-8' /><li class="itemize_item">One just shows the object and labels it.</li>
<li class="itemize_item">No particular characteristics of the object must be taught (a car has wheels, a dog has eyes and mouth, ...).</li>
<li class="itemize_item">The child is able to recognize up to some extent different objects of the same class (several branches of cars, with different color, size and shape, several kinds of dogs, races are pretty different).</li>
</ul>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-11' />Computer codes are sets of instructions. The instructions are very strict, they are operations applied on numerical data, like, - "add those and put it there", - "compare those and decide what to do based on the result", - "repeat this operations until ...", and so on. It is an easy task to teach to a child how to recognize a car, one just points and label. But maybe it is not so easy to teach a computer to do the same thing expressing specific computer language instructions. This will be discussed in a more profound way further in our classes. One can try to express properties of a car components that can leads to its correct recognition, like, it must have wheels, a shape of some form ... just thinking about it will show how hard this task is. Maybe we can say we know to recognize a car, but, we don't know how we do it. Some outbreak brain functioning theories states that our brains have specialized areas to process stuff, and several of this areas are out of the conscious parts of our brains. So, we can do it (by receiving in our sentient part of the brain results of processing done in the unconscious part of our brains), but we don't know how we do it.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-12' />Computer scientists have try to take several approaches to perform object recognition, in the most general field of artificial intelligence. There has been some success in characteristics segmentation, but with poor generalization effects. There is where automatic learning has recently deserving special efforts, and has given some promising results. We will see that a recognition algorithm does it works by automatically selecting some characteristics, but, as they evolve, we have no idea what characteristics it is selecting. Usually, a huge amount, and also, a huge blend of them, not necessarily something as evident as wheels, corners and wind shields.</div>
<h2 class='bibliography'>Bibliography</h2>

<div class='bibliography'><div class="bibliography"><a id='magicparlabel-13' /><a id='LyXCite-key_1' />
<span class='bibitemlabel'>1</span>Machine Learning, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Machine_learning, visited in April 15, 2017</div>

<div class="bibliography"><a id='magicparlabel-14' /><a id='LyXCite-key_2' />
<span class='bibitemlabel'>2</span>Coursera, https://pt.coursera.org/learn/machine-learning, visited in April 14, 2017</div>

<div class="bibliography"><a id='magicparlabel-15' /><a id='LyXCite-key_3' />
<span class='bibitemlabel'>3</span>Andrew NG, http://www.andrewng.org/, visited in April 14, 2017</div>
</div></body>
</html>
Contact GitHub 
